[Music]
14 facts about money you should know by
age 30 there are definitely certain
things you can do that will lead to
prosperity but there are others that
will bring you to financial disaster if
you want to sleep soundly at 50 because
you practiced good money habits at 30
then you've come to the right place and
here's a challenge for you if you manage
to spot four light bulbs in this video
you could end up in one of our next
videos in order to become Brightside
famous just comment down below the
timestamp of each light bulb and we'll
pick the first attentive viewer good
luck number 14 kids are expensive
[Music]
whether it's coming from societal
expectations you're overzealous parents
or somewhere deep within yourself
there's this nagging pressure to have
kids by the time you're in your late 20s
or early 30s but frankly speaking
raising children is really costly no
really costly doesn't quite get the
message across how about this raising
just one kid can drain your funds up to
as much as a quarter of a million
dollars the Department of Agriculture
has published a report revealing that a
married couple with a middle-sized
income will spend approximately two
hundred thirty three thousand six
hundred ten dollars to raise just one
child that's about thirteen thousand
dollars a year per kid and this figure
only covers expenditure from birth and
until they finish school so this doesn't
even include paying for a college
education if you want your young one to
have a shot at a good future plan on
spending a whole lot more on a degree
that's why it's much better to have kids
not only when you're emotionally ready
but also when you're financially ready
so don't give in to pressure from other
people and don't rush into it prepare a
financial cushion with your partner
before you decide to start a family this
way
your kid will have a happy healthy life
instead of one full of financial
struggle instability and
unpredictability
number thirteen it's not embarrassing to
ask for a promotion if you've been
working in the same position for more
than three years the time has come to
make your way up the career ladder
asking for a promotion is the right step
to improve your financial situation
that's why you shouldn't be shy or
humiliated about asking for a promotion
or even just a raise just remember if
you ask for a promotion expect more
responsibilities and an increased
workload if you've been refused a
promotion several times it's time to
start thinking about changing your job
or improving your professional skills by
the way here are some mistakes people
make when they ask for a promotion you
don't want to hurt your chances making
these blunders do you don't ask for too
much all at once you might think that
you've waited long enough and now you're
entitled to everything too many or too
high demands will most likely just annoy
your boss and get you nowhere don't
assume that a promotion is a magic pill
that'll immediately fix everything this
type of thinking only leads to big
disappointments one step up the career
ladder won't equal instant happiness or
tons of wealth don't overshoot your
target if you try to prove yourself to
your boss by taking on their
responsibilities they can get offended
or see you as a threat to their position
if you want to avoid this try to make
your boss see that there are some
personal benefits for them in your
promotion make it look like a win-win
situation and of course one of the most
common mistakes you can easily avoid is
choosing the wrong time and the wrong
place to ask for a promotion schedule
the meeting in advance and make sure
there's enough time for you to explain
your request
avoid end of the day meetings or ones
right before lunch otherwise you'll have
to deal with a hungry or tired person
and the decision will harden 12 it's
more profitable to rent then own
we like to think that investing in real
estate is a great decision and the
ultimate stamp of official adulthood but
real estate itself is getting cheaper
while mortgage rates are going up does
that sound very profitable to you here's
an illustrative example for you let's
suppose that a house costs one hundred
thousand dollars renting it would be
around five hundred fifty dollars a
month which is six thousand six hundred
dollars a year let's subtract that six
thousand six hundred dollars from the
general cost of the house we would put
the remaining amount into a savings
account with seven percent interest
that alone would bring us six thousand
seven hundred fifty-two dollars a year
just an accumulated interest and that's
more than enough to pay for another year
of renting if you invest your money more
wisely let's say in funding you'll get
nine thousand seven hundred sixty-four
dollars at the end of the year that's
actually a reasonable profit plus when
you rent you don't have to spend money
on maintenance taxes and sometimes not
even on furniture that's why before
making a decision whether to rent or own
count out all the expenses and choose
the more profitable option 11 invest in
your health and education it's really
hard to achieve success when you're not
in your best shape health-wise that's
why it's important to take care of
yourself go on vacation at least once a
year get enough sleep and eat the right
foods good education in turn can open a
lot of doors and eliminate boarders you
can start a course that will develop and
improve your current professional skills
or master an absolutely new occupation
the sky's the limit
number 10 don't invest in something you
don't know well
even if you want to get rich as soon as
possible and don't we all you need to be
cool calm and collected when it comes to
financial matters giving in to strong
emotions or impulses to invest in
dubious projects can strip you of a lot
of if not all of your money it's always
better to consult the experts beforehand
to have a sensible assessment of the
project and its chances of becoming
successful number nine don't borrow to
pay old debts there's an old saying
don't rob Peter to pay Paul
well that phrase is popular and has
stuck around for centuries for good
reason it's great advice don't take out
a new loan in order to pay off an old
one and don't borrow money from one
friend so that you can pay back another
it's a vicious cycle it's much better to
just be debt-free but if you happen to
take out a loan better to stop yourself
from buying something and save the money
to repay the loan without more borrowing
number eight stay connected with your
friends and meet new people a friend in
court is better than a penny in the
purse there's another old saying with a
lot of truth in it personal
relationships are much more important
than money
no amount of money is worth losing your
friend over have you ever had any
situations involving friendship versus
finance if so tell us about it in the
comments we'd love to know if you can
relate number seven it's more efficient
to buy good quality shoes and clothes
yes they do cost more but nice quality
clothes will serve you much longer than
cheap ones therefore it's more cost
effective to spend more money on durable
things because you're not buying them
again and again and if you buy them
during sales it's twice as effective try
to make a list of things you need and
jump on them if they're on sale then you
can save your money for an upcoming
vacation and take care of your health as
we mentioned earlier number six avoid
impulse purchases
as much joy and heart-racing excitement
as they bring impulse purchases are
enemy number one if you're on a tight
budget impulse shopping will punch holes
right through it they are nothing but a
need for happiness and instant
gratification find joy in something else
instead of buying yet another blue dress
for just ten dollars number five
start saving money for old age now today
you're 20 and you'll be 30 before you
know it time is fast and merciless one
moment you're young and the next thing
you know you're picking up your
grandkids from kindergarten if you save
at least twenty to fifty dollars a month
you'll have a decent amount in your
account when you're elderly which will
make you feel more secure please take
care of your future bingo loving self
number four eat and cook at home so many
people go out to eat more often than
they dine at home maybe they're too lazy
to cook at home or perhaps they
mistakenly think that eating out isn't
that expensive yeah sure a hamburger for
a dollar does sound really cheap at
first but next time you go to the
grocery store count up how much you
spend on your food also don't forget
about how many servings you get out of
cooking that fast-food restaurant gives
you one hamburger for here and now if
you buy a pound of ground beef how many
hamburgers will you get out of that
they'll definitely be under a dollar
each you'll see in no time that cooking
at home is much cheaper number three put
part of your salary into a savings
account for a rainy day
life is unpredictable anything can
happen and some things demand a lot of
money from you your car broke down your
basement is flooded you've got a cavity
you've been ignoring for months but hey
it just decided to start being really
painful all of these things require
large sums of money but where will it
come from if you set aside some money
every month in a savings account you
won't panic in an extreme situation
because you'll have that financial
cushion to fall on
number two be on the same page with your
significant other when it comes to
finances it's totally normal if you and
your spouse have different tastes and
music movies books whatever but partners
should be unanimous when it comes to
financial questions if you try to save
money yet your partner is always blowing
it you'll never reach any kind of level
of prosperity talk to your partner and
come up with a family budget set common
financial goals and decide how you'll
achieve them if you're having problems
staying motivated try saving up some
money for a vacation for example again
got to take care of your health and give
yourself a rest number 1 find a passive
source of income it's good if you have a
job that keeps the bills paid but in our
unstable world it's always better to
have different sources of income that's
why it's worth exploring the world of
investments study the best ways to
invest money and choose the one that
suits you the most he can be real estate
stocks or bonds depending on how much
you're willing to risk but whatever you
pick it will provide a nice passive
source of income that will help you get
a little more security in your future
maybe we've missed something
if so add your own advice on how to
manage money more reasonably in the
comment section and how did you do with
the lightbulbs did you find them all
were you the first to comment the time
stamps share this video with your
friends and don't forget to hit the like
button
you